Two-factor authentication
===

Two-factor authentication (2FA) is also known by other names such as multi-factor authentication and 2-step verification.

2FA is used to strengthen your account protection and it provides another layer of protection against attackers. When you adopt 2FA, The attacker needs more than your username and password to get into your account. 

Breaches happen and your data will be sold on some website and you don't want to allow some guy get into your account because your password got leaked. If you read the chapter on passwords and made a unique password for each account you don't have to worry because the attacker won't be able to access your other accounts but even if the attacker knew your password he won't be able to get in if you had activated 2 factor authentication.

Most websites usually send an SMS code to your phone or a code is generated by an authenticator app. We don't recommend receiving the code via SMS in case your adversary is a nation-state since they can see the code and log in. Even NIST no longer recommends two-factor authentication systems that use SMS.

Using a dedicated authenticator is better than receiving a code via SMS. Also if someone nearby has an IMSI catcher he/she won't be able to see the code and get into your account. 

Here are few authenticator apps:

- Authy
- Aegis
- FreeOTP


One other solution is to use a physical object such as a USB key which is more secure. They're quite cheap and very easy to use and phishing sites don’t have a great way to intercept information from security keys. 

One great security key is Yubikey. One downside of using Yubikeys is that they're not supported by all websites but they can be used with major websites.


Things to consider
===

Although there have been attacks against 2FA, 2FA will add another layer of protection and will protect you against attackers. It's important to consider your threat model when it comes to choosing a method.

As we said earlier SMS based verification is not recommended especially when your adversary is a nation-state because they it's a quite easy for them to intercept the code. 

Apps like Authy provide a better protection but if you want to have a more secure option, start using a security key because they're resistant against phishing attacks.

